The Joe Rogan experience. We have an idea. I actually brought some,
some Sanskrit to show you. You want to see some Sanskrit?
Can you put it up on the screen that it's under the, the Soma tab? Oh,
look at how beautiful that is. There it is there writing it in Sanskrit. God,
it's so pretty. Do you want me to read it for you please? You can read that.
Yeah. So.
This was my major in college. So at the, in the very middle there, you can see
[inaudible] and what, what he's saying there, um, is this is from the rig Veda,
right? And then it's, it's the oldest literature in Western civilization. Uh,
we, we think it's, uh, among the European languages,
it's the oldest recorded literature that we have. It could be 1500 BC,
1700 perhaps much earlier, like the Iliad and the Odyssey in Greek.
This is the mother tongue of, of all the Indo-European languages. Uh,
and what they write about a lot is so ma which is both a God and the juice that
is pressed from this God. And what they're talking about there is,
is making this ritual potion very much like the cookie on that we find among the
ancient Greeks and here Soma is described as a mixed potion.
Yamashita means mixed with barley Guevara from Sanskrit go
gov is milk mixed with milk.
And so I've read all the theories that you have about what Soma was,
whether it was the Amanita Muscarella mushroom or some silicide and containing
species or, or DMT. Uh,
the way that they describe Soma here is always a mixed potion, which, um,
so in this case mixed with barley and, and milk.
So that would be an Earl, got some sort of.
Already they're mentioned. I mean, and so that's,
that's what rock Hoffman and Wasson were saying in 1978, um, we have,
we have literature from the seventh century BC,
it's called the [inaudible], where they record these ingredients, uh,
of what the cookie on was you asked, like what, what, where's
the actual evidence? So in the seventies, we didn't have much, it starts with the literature, which is what classes
do. And so there's this [inaudible]
that was discovered in 1777 a year after we declare our independence from
Graham's people and what they, what they found in their, in, in line. Okay,
great.
We're in Texas man. Absolutely. Well done. I'm all for independence.
So like, I'd like to be independent of my own country, if possible, as well.
Texas has taken refugees at the moment. Isn't it?
Well, that's, what's happening here. That's why we're here.
We're we're refugees from the country of California, this nation,
state of California. Um, so why,
why do we know why they combined it with milk?
And it was it just so that it was easier to consume.
That that's what we don't know. We don't know why the cookie on was,
it was this mixed thing either, but so in the him to Daimler,
they record these ingredients. It's Alfie, which is barley, who daughter,
which is water and, uh, Blake on which means mint. And that's all we had.
So there doesn't say milk, you say milk. That was in Selma. And so, yeah,
I'm sorry, which they.
Mixed with all kinds of things and not, and not just barley and milk,
but also honey, as a matter of fact, Soma is often identified with Magoo,
which is honey in Sanskrit.
Ken, uh, speculated that there was, uh, there was a transfer,
uh, in culture of a psychedelic based culture to an alcohol based culture
based on climate change.
And also based on preserving things in honey and that honey would create
Mead and Meade, which, uh,
if people don't know is an alcohol beverage that's actually made with honey
[inaudible] is,
do you think that this was the case with the use of honey as
well, that is used as a preservative or was it used to,
to make it taste better, more palatable? W we, we don't know. We don't.
Know that that's the problem.
When we're talking about ancient plants and fungi plants, especially we,
we don't know what plants they're talking about.
So the ancient literature records all kinds of plants across the right.
If I could, if I could jump in Joe you're, you're absolutely right.
There was a secrecy that surrounded the use of these potions in the ancient
world. There's a case from,
from Athens of the potion from elusive is being used for recreational
purposes.
And this is roundly condemned by all concerned that it should only be used for
the, for the sacred and spiritual purposes of which it was intended.
So there was a great deal of secrecy, uh,
that surrounded the use of these potions and the potions were a doorway or a
gateway into another level of reality.
And what's fascinating from a looses and many other ancient accounts is the way
that people come back, having lost their fear of death,
that they don't regard death as the end anymore.
It's just another stage on the journey,
just the beginning of the next great adventure. Uh, and, and, um,
it it's, Brian is absolutely right to draw attention to the,
to the modern work with psilocybin. And again,
we find people who are terminal cases who are imminently facing death,
losing their fear of death as a result of, of using psilocybin.
So we can begin to see connections between what we understand about these
extraordinary substances in the modern world and how the ancient world used
them.
Th th that does seem to be a universal theme, this, uh,
this theme of alleviating the fear of death. And this, this,
this comes up constantly with people that I know personally,
that have had it had these psychedelic experiences. They, they say, well,
I feel like I went to heaven.
I feel like now I understand why people believe there's this perfect afterlife.
That I've.
A lot of,
a lot of the critics will say that it's some kind of natural human
tendency that we don't want to die, and that we're afraid of death. And that,
um, that, uh, religions provide us with some sort of solace, uh,
some, some sort of feeling of security, but I don't think that washes a tall.
I think it's,
I think what's striking about the psychedelics is it's a direct experience that
the person has. They have an experience. It's not a teaching.
It's not something that they're told about.
It's not a scripture that they read is an experience that they have,
and that experience eliminates the fear of death. I think Brian, by the way,
uh, having written the mortality Kiva, which I've only provided the forward, uh,
I think Brian is absolutely right to be a psychedelic Virgin, um, in,
in my case because I have used psychedelics and many other substances,
a lot of my critics just try to write off all my work,
whether it's on lost civilizations, uh, or on psychedelics,
they tried to write it all off as the rantings of a sort of drug fueled maniac.
Uh, and I think it's very smart of Brian, very smarter, Brian,
not to put himself in that situation.
I hope he will work with psychedelics in the future,
but I think he was right not to work with psychedelics before writing this book
and to concentrate on the evidence.
Uh, Michael Pollan, who, uh,
later in life experienced psychedelics and, uh,
wrote pretty brilliantly about them for me. Now,
he's one of the more interesting, uh,
people to discuss it because Michael's an investigative journalist. He,
he D he.it takes deep dives into these subjects.
And his deep dive into psychedelics was incredibly illuminating. And so for him,
I really enjoyed talking to him about it. And I really enjoyed his book as well.
His,
his perceptions of it were really unique because you're talking about a guy who
lived his whole life without them, you know,
and then really dove head first for his book. It's kind of.
What happened, kind of what happened to me when I, when I wrote supernatural,
I had, I had apart from one experience with LSD in 1974,
I hadn't used any psychedelics until I began to research a supernatural back in
the early two thousands.
And because I'm a kind of boots on the ground researcher,
I felt it was essential that I have these experiences.
What I couldn't guess was the way that the experiences would utterly change and
transform my life. And I, I can understand from a level of personal experience,
why psychedelics do lie at the root, I think of all the world's religions,
uh, and those religions are now busily at work, trying to deny that connection.
Well, th they're not just trying to do it.
There's many people in science that are trying to deny these connections too.
And it's,
it's so unfortunate that the people that are trying to deny these connections or
the significance of these experiences haven't had them.
I don't think anybody who has a dimethyltryptamine experience can just dismiss
it as being no big deal. It's too. It's too crazy.
The F you need to do it, sir.
This guy.
I mean, just the fact that it's,
it's one of those things where everyone who does it comes out of it saying,
I can't believe that's real. Yeah. I can't,
I can't believe you can just get there that quickly,
that three and all of a sudden you're in Narnia. I just,
I guess not way more intense than Narnia what it's doing,
and.
You're in a place where entities are actually communicating with you and
speaking to you and teaching to you. I mean,
this is another aspect of psychedelics is the moral aspect of psychedelics
critics and enemies of psychedelics want to associate them with some kind of
immortality,
but actually anybody who's worked extensively with psychedelics will know that
they contain moral teachings, whether it's the mushrooms or whether it's LSD,
they cause us to examine our own behavior, our own impact upon others,
to question our unkindness to others and to give us at least, uh,
the push to,
to begin to be better people and more nurturing and more caring people for
others. So this strong moral element in psychedelics again, is totally ignored,
uh, by, by, by the critics who just want to demonize these substances for,
for reasons that I think are rather sinister, actually.
Yep. So, so the Joe Rogan experience are now free on Spotify. That's right.
They're free from September 1st is December 1st.
They're going to be available everywhere, but after December 1st,
they will only be available on Spotify, but they will be free.
That includes the video. The video will also be there. It'll also be free.
That's all we're asking. Just go download Spotify much. Buh-bye.